titan doc update for release 7.6.0 (#15986)
pingcap/docs: tikv-configuration-file.md

>
> Periodic full compaction is experimental. It is not recommended that you use it in the production environment. This feature might be changed or removed without prior notice. If you find a bug, you can report an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues) on GitHub.

> + Set the specific times that TiKV initiates periodic full compaction. You can specify multiple time schedules in an array. For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Set the specific times that TiKV initiates periodic full compaction. You can specify multiple time schedules in an array. For example:
```

### `rate-bytes-per-sec`

> + When Titan is disabled, this option limits the I/O rate of RocksDB compaction to reduce the impact of RocksDB compaction on the foreground read and write performance during traffic peaks. When Titan is enabled, this option limits the summed I/O rates of RocksDB compaction and Titan GC. If you find that the I/O or CPU consumption of RocksDB compaction and Titan GC is too large, set this option to a suitable value according the disk I/O bandwidth and the actual write traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ When Titan is disabled, this configuration item limits the I/O rate of RocksDB compaction to reduce the impact of RocksDB compaction on the foreground read and write performance during traffic peaks. When Titan is enabled, this configuration item limits the summed I/O rates of RocksDB compaction and Titan GC. If you find that the I/O or CPU consumption of RocksDB compaction and Titan GC is too large, set this configuration item to an appropriate value according the disk I/O bandwidth and the actual write traffic.
```

> + When Titan is disabled, this option limits the I/O rate of RocksDB compaction to reduce the impact of RocksDB compaction on the foreground read and write performance during traffic peaks. When Titan is enabled, this option limits the summed I/O rates of RocksDB compaction and Titan GC. If you find that the I/O and/or CPU consumption of RocksDB compaction and Titan GC is too large, set this option to a suitable value according the disk I/O bandwidth and the actual write traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ When Titan is disabled, this option limits the I/O rate of RocksDB compaction to reduce the impact of RocksDB compaction on the foreground read and write performance during traffic peaks. When Titan is enabled, this option limits the summed I/O rates of RocksDB compaction and Titan GC. If you find that the I/O or CPU consumption of RocksDB compaction and Titan GC is too large, set this option to a suitable value according the disk I/O bandwidth and the actual write traffic.
```

### `enabled`

+ Enables or disables Titan.

> + Default value:  In TiDB 7.6.0 or newer version, the default value is `true` in newly created cluster. In other cases, it's `false`. So if you upgrade to TiDB 7.6.0 from older TiBD version, it would keep the original setting if it's set explictly or be false if it's not set. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ Default value:  for v7.5.0 and earlier versions, the default value is `false`. Starting from v7.6.0, the default value is `true` for only new clusters. Existing clusters upgraded to v7.6.0 or later versions will retain the original configuration.
```

### `enabled`

> **Note:**
>

> > - Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, Titan is enabled by default to enhance the performance of writing wide tables and JSON data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - To enhance the performance of wide table and JSON data writing and point query, starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default value changes from `false` to `true`, which means that Titan is enabled by default.
```

> - Existing clusters upgraded to v7.6.0 or later versions retain the original configuration, which means that if Titan is not explicitly enabled, it still uses RocksDB.

> > - If the cluster has enabled Titan before upgrading to TiDB v7.6.0 or later versions, Titan will be retained after the upgrade, and the [`min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) configuration before the upgrade will be retained. If you do not explicitly configure the value before the upgrade, the default value of the old version `1KB` will be retained to ensure the stability of the cluster configuration after the upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - If the cluster has enabled Titan before upgrading to TiDB v7.6.0 or later versions, Titan will be retained after the upgrade, and the [`min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) configuration before the upgrade will be retained. If you do not explicitly configure the value before the upgrade, the previous default value `1KB` will be retained to ensure the stability of the cluster configuration after the upgrade.
```

> > - If the cluster has enabled Titan before upgrading to TiDB v7.6.0 or later versions, Titan will be retained after the upgrade, and the [`min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) configuration before the upgrade will be retained. If you do not explicitly configure the value before the upgrade, the default value of the old version `1KB` will be retained to ensure the stability of the cluster configuration after the upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - If the cluster has enabled Titan before upgrading to TiDB v7.6.0 or later versions, Titan will be retained after the upgrade, and the [`min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) configuration before the upgrade will be retained. If you do not explicitly configure the value before the upgrade, the default value of the previous version `1KB` will be retained to ensure the stability of the cluster configuration after the upgrade.
```

### `max-background-gc`

> + The maximum number of GC threads in Titan. From the **TiKV Details** -> **Thread CPU** -> **RocksDB CPU** panel, if you observe that the Titan GC threads are at full capacity for a long time, consider increasing the size of the Titan GC thread pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ The maximum number of GC threads in Titan. From the **TiKV Details** > **Thread CPU** > **RocksDB CPU** panel, if you observe that the Titan GC threads are at full capacity for a long time, consider increasing the size of the Titan GC thread pool.
```

+ The compression algorithm used in a Blob file
+ Optional values: `"no"`, `"snappy"`, `"zlib"`, `"bzip2"`, `"lz4"`, `"lz4hc"`, `"zstd"`
+ Default value: `"zstd"`

> **Note:**
>
> The Snappy compressed file must be in the [official Snappy format](https://github.com/google/snappy). Other variants of Snappy compression are not supported.

### `zstd-dict-size`

> + The zstd compression dictionary size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means Titan's compression is based on single values. But RocksDB compression is based on blocks (`32KB` by default). When the average size of Titan values is less than `32KB`, Titan's compression ratio is smaller than RocksdDB. Taking JSON as an example, Titan store size can be 30% to 50% bigger than RocksDB. The actual compression ratio depends on the value content and the similiarity among different values. You can set `zstd-dict-size` (for example, set it to `16KB`) to enable the zstd dictionary compression to increase the compression ratio. The actual store size can be lower than RocksDB. But the zstd dictionary compression can lead to about 10% throughput regression in a typical read-write workload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ The zstd compression dictionary size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means to disable the zstd compression dictionary. In this case, Titan's compression is based on single values, but RocksDB compression is based on blocks (`32KB` by default). When the average size of Titan values is less than `32KB`, Titan's compression ratio is smaller than RocksdDB. Taking JSON as an example, Titan store size can be 30% to 50% bigger than RocksDB. The actual compression ratio depends on the value content and the similiarity among different values. You can set `zstd-dict-size` (for example, set it to `16KB`) to enable the zstd dictionary compression to increase the compression ratio. The actual store size can be lower than RocksDB. But the zstd dictionary compression can lead to about 10% throughput regression in a typical read-write workload.
```

>
> The Snappy compressed file must be in the [official Snappy format](https://github.com/google/snappy). Other variants of Snappy compression are not supported.

### `zstd-dict-size`

> + The zstd compression dictionary size. By default it's `0KB` which means zstd compression is based on single value, while RocksDB's comression unit is block (32KB size by default). So when zstd dictionary compression is off and the average value is less than 32KB, Titan's compression ratio is smaller than RocksDB. Using Json data as an example, Titan store size could be 30% to 50% more than RocksDB size. Users could set zstd-dict-size (e.g. 16KB) to enable zstd dictionary compression which can achieve similar compression ratio of RocksDB. Though, zstd dictionary compression can lead to 10% performance regression. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ The zstd compression dictionary size. The default value is `0KB`, which means Titan's compression is based on single values. But RocksDB compression is based on blocks (`32 KB` by default). When the average size of Titan values is less than `32 KB`, Titan's comression ratio is smaller than RocksdDB. Taking JSON as an example, Titan store size can be 30% ~ 50% bigger than RocksDB. The actual compression ratio depends on the value content and the similiarity among different values. You can set `zstd-dict-size` (for example, set it to `16 KB`) to enable zstd dictionary compression to increase the compression ratio. The actual Store Size can be lower than RocksDB. But zstd dictionary compression can lead to about 10% throughput regression in a typical read-write workload.
```

+ 

> + Default value: "0KB"`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ Default value: `"0KB"`
```

> + The zstd compression dictionary size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means Titan's compression is based on single values. But RocksDB compression is based on blocks (`32 KB` by default). When the average size of Titan values is less than `32 KB`, Titan's compression ratio is smaller than RocksdDB. Taking JSON as an example, Titan store size can be 30% to 50% bigger than RocksDB. The actual compression ratio depends on the value content and the similiarity among different values. You can set `zstd-dict-size` (for example, set it to `16 KB`) to enable zstd dictionary compression to increase the compression ratio. The actual Store Size can be lower than RocksDB. But zstd dictionary compression can lead to about 10% throughput regression in a typical read-write workload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ The zstd compression dictionary size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means Titan's compression is based on single values. But RocksDB compression is based on blocks (`32KB` by default). When the average size of Titan values is less than `32KB`, Titan's compression ratio is smaller than RocksdDB. Taking JSON as an example, Titan store size can be 30% to 50% bigger than RocksDB. The actual compression ratio depends on the value content and the similiarity among different values. You can set `zstd-dict-size` (for example, set it to `16KB`) to enable the zstd dictionary compression to increase the compression ratio. The actual store size can be lower than RocksDB. But the zstd dictionary compression can lead to about 10% throughput regression in a typical read-write workload.
```

+ Unit: KB|MB|GB 

### `blob-cache-size`

+ The cache size of a Blob file
+ Default value: `"0GB"`
+ Minimum value: `0`

> + Recommended value: After TiKv runs for a while, set the RocksDB block cache (`storage.block-cache.capacity`) to have 95%+ block cache hit rate. Then the `blob-cache-size` is set with `total memory size * 50% - block cache size`. Block cache hit rate is more important than blob cache hit rate. If `storage.block-cache.capacity` is too small, the overall performance would not be good due to low block cache hit rate.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ Recommended value: It is recommended that after the database has stabilized, set the RocksDB block cache (`storage.block-cache.capacity`) to just above 95% of the Block Cache hit rate based on monitoring, and `blob-cache-size` to `total memory size * 50% - block cache size`. This is to ensure that the block cache is large enough to cache the entire RocksDB, while keeping the blob cache as large as possible. However, do not set the value of the blob cache too large. Otherwise the block cache hit rate will drop significantly.
```

> + Recommended value: It is recommended that after the database has stabilized, set the RocksDB block cache (`storage.block-cache.capacity`) to just above 95% of the Block Cache hit rate based on monitoring, and `blob-cache-size` to `total memory size * 50% - block cache size`. This is to ensure that the block cache is large enough to cache the entire RocksDB, while keeping the blob cache as large as possible. However, do not set the value of the blob cache too large. Otherwise the block cache hit rate will drop significantly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ Recommended value: It is recommended that after the database has stabilized, set the RocksDB block cache (`storage.block-cache.capacity`) to just above 95% of the Block Cache hit rate based on monitoring, and `blob-cache-size` to `(total memory size) * 50% - (size of block cache)`. This is to ensure that the block cache is large enough to cache the entire RocksDB, while keeping the blob cache as large as possible. However, do not set the value of the blob cache too large. Otherwise the block cache hit rate will drop significantly.
```

## rocksdb.defaultcf.titan

> **Note:**
>

> > Enabling Titan in `rocksdb.defaultcf` is supported, but enabling Titan in `rocksdb.writecf` is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Titan can only be enabled in `rocksdb.defaultcf`. It is not supported to enable Titan in `rocksdb.writecf`.
```

Configuration items related to `rocksdb.defaultcf.titan`.

### `min-blob-size`

> **Note:**
>

> > - Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, Titan is enabled by default for new clusters to enhance the performance of writing wide tables and JSON data. The default value of the [`min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) threshold is changed from `1KB` to `32KB`. Values exceeding `32KB` will now be stored in Titan, while other data continues to be stored in RocksDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, Titan is enabled by default to enhance the performance of wide table and JSON data writing and point query. The default value of `min-blob-size` changes from `1KB` to `32KB`. This means that values exceeding `32KB` is stored in Titan, while other data continues to be stored in RocksDB.
```

> > - For existing clusters upgrading to TiDB v7.6.0 or later versions, if you do not explicitly set `min-blob-size` before the upgrade, it will retain the old default value of `1KB` to ensure stability in the configuration after the upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - To ensure configuration consistency, for existing clusters upgrading to TiDB v7.6.0 or later versions, if you do not explicitly set `min-blob-size` before the upgrade, TiDB retains the previous default value of `1KB`.
```

> - A value smaller than `32KB` might affect the performance of range scans. However, if the workload primarily involves heavy writes and point queries, you can consider decreasing the value of `min-blob-size` for better performance.

+ The smallest value stored in a Blob file. Values smaller than the specified size are stored in the LSM-Tree.
+ Default value: `"32KB"`
+ Minimum value: `0`
+ Unit: KB|MB|GB

### `blob-file-compression`

> **Note:**
>
> - Snappy compressed files must be in the [official Snappy format](https://github.com/google/snappy). Other variants of Snappy compression are not supported.

> > - Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default value for the variable `blob-file-compression` has changed from `lz4` to `zstd`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default value of `blob-file-compression` changes from `"lz4"` to `"zstd"`.
```

+ The compression algorithm used in a Blob file
+ Optional values: `"no"`, `"snappy"`, `"zlib"`, `"bzip2"`, `"lz4"`, `"lz4hc"`, `"zstd"`
+ Default value: `"zstd"`

### `zstd-dict-size`

> + The zstd dictionary compression size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means to disable the zstd dictionary compression. In this case, Titan's compression is based on single values, but RocksDB compression is based on blocks (`32KB` by default). When the average size of Titan values is less than `32KB`, Titan's compression ratio is smaller than RocksdDB. Taking JSON as an example, Titan store size can be 30% to 50% bigger than RocksDB. The actual compression ratio depends on the value content and the similiarity among different values. You can set `zstd-dict-size` (for example, set it to `16KB`) to enable the zstd dictionary compression to increase the compression ratio. The actual store size can be lower than RocksDB. But the zstd dictionary compression can lead to about 10% throughput regression in a typical read-write workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ The zstd dictionary compression size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means to disable the zstd dictionary compression. In this case, Titan compresses data based on single values, whereas RocksDB compresses data based on blocks (`32KB` by default). When the average size of Titan values is less than `32KB`, Titan's compression ratio is lower than that of RocksDB. Taking JSON as an example, the store size in Titan can be 30% to 50% larger than that of RocksDB. The actual compression ratio depends on whether the value content is suitable for compression and the similarity among different values. You can enable the zstd dictionary compression to increase the compression ratio by configuring `zstd-dict-size` (for example, set it to `16KB`). The actual store size can be lower than that of RocksDB. But the zstd dictionary compression might lead to about 10% performance regression in specific workloads.
```

> + 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+ Default value: `"0KB"`
+ Unit: KB|MB|GB 

### `blob-cache-size`

+ The cache size of a Blob file
+ Default value: `"0GB"`
+ Minimum value: `0`

> + Recommended value: It is recommended that after the database has stabilized, set the RocksDB block cache (`storage.block-cache.capacity`) to just above 95% of the Block Cache hit rate based on monitoring, and `blob-cache-size` to `(total memory size) * 50% - (size of block cache)`. This is to ensure that the block cache is large enough to cache the entire RocksDB, while keeping the blob cache as large as possible. However, do not set the value of the blob cache too large. Otherwise the block cache hit rate will drop significantly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Recommended value: After database stabilization, it is recommended to set the RocksDB block cache (`storage.block-cache.capacity`) based on monitoring to maintain a block cache hit rate of at least 95%, and set `blob-cache-size` to `(total memory size) * 50% - (size of block cache)`. This is to ensure that the block cache is sufficiently large to cache the entire RocksDB, while maximizing the blob cache size. However, to prevent a significant drop in the block cache hit rate, do not set the blob cache size too large.
```

## rocksdb.defaultcf.titan

> **Note:**
>
> Enabling Titan in `rocksdb.defaultcf` is supported, but enabling Titan in `rocksdb.writecf` is not supported.

Configuration items related to `rocksdb.defaultcf.titan`.

### `min-blob-size`

> **Note:**
>

> > - Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, Titan is enabled by default for new clusters to enhance the performance of writing wide tables and JSON data. The default value of the [`min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) threshold is changed from `1KB` to `32KB`. Values exceeding 32KB will now be stored in Titan, while other data continues to be stored in RocksDB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, Titan is enabled by default for new clusters to enhance the performance of writing wide tables and JSON data. The default value of the [`min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) threshold is changed from `1KB` to `32KB`. Values exceeding `32KB` will now be stored in Titan, while other data continues to be stored in RocksDB.
```

> - For existing clusters upgrading to TiDB v7.6.0 or later versions, if you do not explicitly set `min-blob-size` before the upgrade, it will maintain the old default value of `1KB`` to ensure stability in the configuration after the upgrade.

> > - A value smaller than `32KB` might affect the performance of range scans. However, if the workload primarily involves heavy writes and point queries, you can consider decrease the value of `min-blob-size` for better performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - A value smaller than `32KB` might affect the performance of range scans. However, if the workload primarily involves heavy writes and point queries, you can consider decreasing the value of `min-blob-size` for better performance.
```

+ The smallest value stored in a Blob file. Values smaller than the specified size are stored in the LSM-Tree.
+ Default value: `"32KB"`
+ Minimum value: `0`
+ Unit: KB|MB|GB

### `blob-file-compression`

> **Note:**
>
> - Snappy compressed files must be in the [official Snappy format](https://github.com/google/snappy). Other variants of Snappy compression are not supported.
> - Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default value for the variable `blob-file-compression` has changed from `lz4` to `zstd`.

+ The compression algorithm used in a Blob file
+ Optional values: `"no"`, `"snappy"`, `"zlib"`, `"bzip2"`, `"lz4"`, `"lz4hc"`, `"zstd"`
+ Default value: `"zstd"`

> > **Note:**
> >

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> > - The Snappy compressed file must be in the [official Snappy format](https://github.com/google/snappy). Other variants of Snappy compression are not supported.
> > - Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default value for the variable `blob-file-compression` has changed from `lz4` to `zstd`.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### `discardable-ratio`

+ When the ratio of obsolete data (the corresponding key has been updated or deleted) in a Blob file exceeds the following threshold, Titan GC is triggered. When Titan writes the valid data of this Blob file to another file, you can use the `discardable-ratio` value to estimate the upper limits of write amplification and space amplification (assuming the compression is disabled).

>     Upper limit of write amplification = 1 / discardable-ratio
> 
>     Upper limit of space amplification = 1 / (1 - discardable-ratio)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Upper limit of write amplification = 1 / `discardable-ratio`

    Upper limit of space amplification = 1 / (1 - `discardable-ratio`)
```

### `discardable-ratio`

> + When the ratio of discardable data (the corresponding key has been updated or deleted) in a blob file exceeds the following threshold, Titan GC is triggered. When Titan writes the useful data of this blob file to another file, you can use the `discardable-ratio` value to estimate the upper limits of write amplification and space amplification (assuming the compression is disabled).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ When the ratio of useless data (the corresponding key has been updated or deleted) in a blob file exceeds the following threshold, Titan GC is triggered. When Titan writes the useful data of this blob file to another file, you can use the `discardable-ratio` value to estimate the upper limits of write amplification and space amplification (assuming the compression is disabled).
```

    Upper limit of write amplification = 1 / discardable_ratio

    Upper limit of space amplification = 1 / (1 - discardable_ratio)

>     From the two equations, you can see that decreasing the value of `discardable_ratio` can reduce space amplification but causes GC to be more frequent in Titan. Increasing the value reduces Titan GC, the corresponding I/O bandwidth, and CPU consumption but increases disk usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    From these two equations, you can see that decreasing the value of `discardable_ratio` can reduce space amplification but causes GC to be more frequent in Titan. Increasing the value reduces Titan GC, the corresponding I/O bandwidth, and CPU consumption but increases disk usage.
```
